Title: OUT NOW RuneScape: Leagues: CATALYST (RS3)
ID: 1
Link: https://secure.runescape.com/m=news/a=13/out-now-runescape-leagues-catalyst-rs3?oldschool=1

---

Our friends on the RS3 team have launched their first League, CATALYST. Here's what you ought to know.





OUT NOW RuneScape: Leagues: CATALYST (RS3)


What is RuneScape: Leagues: CATALYST?



If you've played any of the five OSRS Leagues then you'll be familiar with the concept, but here's the gist of how it'll work in RS3. Alternatively, check out the official Launch blog or the What Is Leagues blog (RS3) for even more detail.




Leagues is a time-limited game mode that lets you start fresh on an alternate version of your character and relive your journey through Gielinor. CATALYST will run from September 15th until November 10th. This is available to all Members (RS3 and OSRS, since membership is shared across characters), with no microtransactions.




This is the RuneScape you know experienced through a new lens - with sky-high XP rates, game-changing relics, a unique set of tasks to conquer - making your adventure more intense than ever. Before long, you’ll be blazing through levels, toppling the toughest bosses, and unleashing epic game changing powers as you tear through your task list.





Playing CATALYST League



There's all sorts of reasons why you might want to play CATALYST: you're desperate to scratch the Leagues itch, you're curious about skills like Archaeology, Invention, or Necromancy, or you might want to try challenging end-game PvM encounters like fighting Zamorak (Yes, you can fight Zamorak!), the Arch-Glacor, or Vorago.




We have the basics of how you can play here but we have to recommend checking out this incredible guide from TheRSGuy. It covers set-up of interfaces, explains combat differences, and even has a Leagues Hub with a Day 1 guide for those of you who find joy in efficiency.




And, of course, the incredible Wiki team have worked their magic to bring you another amazing Leagues hub. It has an interactive task list and an overview of your Relic choices, and way more.




Playing CATALYST will be the easiest Task you come across, it takes no time at all to get stuck in.

Install the RuneScape (RS3) game client - if you're on the Jagex Launcher just navigate to the RS3 menu
Select the character you want to play with
Launch RuneScape (RS3) and from the World selection page choose the Leagues worlds filter and select your world of choice
On logging in you'll see a brief description of CATALYST and how the rewards process works - since you can’t play Leagues and the main game mode simultaneously on the same account, players can nominate which account should receive their Leagues rewards
Choose your character's appearance
Pick an interface layout
Complete the Leagues tutorial in-game and unlock your first Relic
Play CATALYST!




Our friends on the RS3 team have also introduced a promotional Membership Package which spans the entire duration of the League. You can get 57 days of membership for a discounted price! Note that membership applies to your character in either RS3 or OSRS. This offer is available to purchase from today now until 22 September 2025 at 11:00am UTC. Both new and returning members can partake, including those who’ve bought membership with Bonds while the promotion is active but this offer will only appear on Desktop. You can find the deal here at this link, taking you to the Store page and prompting you to login to your game account.






That's it from us! We wish the RuneScape team every success with their first League, and we hope you have fun if you decide to play!




Mods Abe, Abyss, Acorn, Ape, Arcane, Archie, Argo, Ash, Ayiza, BigRig, Blighted, Blossom, Boko, Bruno, Chilly, Criminal, Curse, Daizong, Donkey, Ed, Elena, Enigma, Entropi, Freddie, Fuzz, Gecko, Gengis, Gizmo, Goblin, Grace, Grub, Halo, Harold, Hend, Hornet, Husky, Ivory, Jalo, Jamesy, Jerv, Keyser, Kieren, Kirby, Kurotou, Leebleh, Lenny, Light, Liron, Lykos, Mack, Manked, Markos, Maylea, Mobius, Moogle, Morty, Moz, Necro, Nin, Nixon, Nox, Nylu, Ori, Other, Otter, Philomel, Pork, Pumpkin, Puppi, Rach, Redfield, Rice, Roq, Roy, Ry, Saiyan, Sarnie, Schmidt, Shogun, Shroom, Sigma, Skylark, Smithy, Sova, Spyro, Squid, Starry, Suharun, Surma, Sween, Tide, Titania, Titus, TJ, Tomb, Tsourorf, Tyran, Veda, Vegard, West, Wolfy & Yume




The Old School Team.