Title: Get Ready For Grid Master - October 15th
ID: 9
Link: https://secure.runescape.com/m=news/a=13/get-ready-for-grid-master---october-15th?oldschool=1

---

Get yourself ready for the launch of Old School RuneScape's very first community event when Grid Master launches on October 15th!

This newspost will give you everything you need to know from launch times, FAQs and most importantly showcasing the Grid.

Speaking of our launch, let's give you the timings for Grid Master's launch! Please note: these are the time we are aiming for and we'll keep you updated if there are any changes.

	Timer Begins	Worlds Down	Worlds Up	Grid Master Live
Universal
(UTC)	8:45am	9:30am	10am	11am
UK
(BST)	9:45am	10:30am	11am	12pm
US East
(ET)	4:45am	5:30am	6am	7am
US West
(PT)	1:45am	2:30am	3am	4am
Australia
(AET)	7:45pm	8:30pm	9pm	10pm

To confirm some of the other details we've been speaking about throughout Grid Master, here's the starting bonuses:

Base Multiplier = +400% (or x5)
Drop Rate = x8
Minigame Points = x8
Farming Tickrate = x5
Slayer Points = x5
And yes, you do indeed start with a Dramen Staff 
The Grid

We've added a fancy little grid to give you all the information about the tasks and rewards that have been revealed. We'll keep this updated as soon as any new information has been revealed.

Click any of the tiles to find out more about them and use the 'Flip Tiles' button below to switch between the tasks and rewards!

Flip Tiles
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


	
	
	
	
	
	
	


	
	
	
	
	
	
	


	
	
	
	
	
	
	


	
	
	
	
	
	
	


	
	
	
	
	
	
	


	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Relic Design Race Competition

In the spirit of our very first community event, we're also here with first-of-its-kind competition...

The first three players to fully complete the grid will have a chance to work us to create a brand new Relic for the upcoming Leagues VI.

We're excited to see you think on the fly and push to become the grid's masters - get that podium finish!

For full details and to check if you're eligible to participate, check out T&Cs for more info!

Videos

If you can't see the video above, click here.

If you can't see the video above, click here.

If you can't see the video above, click here.

Cosmetic Rewards
Grid Tabard

If you can't see the image above, click here.

First up is the a funky piece of FashionScape inspired by the very event it's coming from. This Medieval style Tabard features a grid-like pattern with different colour variations, so you can make sure it fits whatever gear you're wielding.

Grid Swords & Emblem

If you can't see the image above, click here.

To keep with the grid style, our second cosmetic reward fits nicely alongside the first as you'll finally be able to wield swords and a shield on your back with the Grid Swords & Emblem. This cosmetic will also come in various colours so you can keep your theme consistent.

Login Screen Chapel Cosmetics

If you can't see the image above, click here.

Finally, as this event is a celebration of the community we want something that is instantly recognisable to all! Decorate your Chapel just like the iconic login screen as these cosmetic overrides will transform your Incense Burner and Chapel Icon into the archway and braziers every player sees before hopping in.

The burner cosmetic can only be used on the Marble Incense Burner, so make sure to get that Construction to 69. Nice.

You can also discuss this update on the 2007Scape subreddit, the Steam forums, or the community-led OSRS Discord in the #gameupdate channel. For more info on the above content, check out the official Old School Wiki.

Mods Abe, Abyss, Acorn, Ape, Arcane, Archie, Argo, Ash, Ayiza, BigRig, Blighted, Blossom, Boko, Bruno, Chilly, Criminal, Curse, Daizong, Ed, Elena, Enigma, Entropi, Freddie, Fuzz, Gecko, Gengis, Gizmo, Goblin, Grace, Grub, Halo, Harold, Hend, Hornet, Husky, Ivory, Jalo, Jamesy, Jerv, Keyser, Kieren, Kirby, Kurotou, Leebleh, Lenny, Light, Liron, Lykos, Mack, Manked, Markos, Maylea, Mobius, Moogle, Morty, Moz, Necro, Nin, Nixon, Nox, Nylu, Ori, Other, Otter, Philomel, Pork, Pumpkin, Puppi, Rach, Redfield, Rice, Roq, Roy, Ry, Saiyan, Sarnie, Schmidt, Shogun, Shroom, Sigma, Skylark, Smithy, Sova, Spyro, Squid, Starry, Suharun, Surma, Sween, Tide, Titania, Titus, TJ, Tomb, Tsourorf, Tyran, Veda, Vegard, West, Wolfy & Yume

The Old School Team.