Title: OSRS x Gielinor Games: Exclusive Collab
ID: 13
Link: https://secure.runescape.com/m=news/a=13/osrs-x-gielinor-games-exclusive-collab?oldschool=1

---

The wait for Season Five of Soup's legendary Gielinor Games is almost over...

To tide you over, Soup and the rest of his team have an exclusive one-off episode that sees household names and veterans teaming up with creators who are brand new to Old School!

Check out the video below to see 19 heavy hitters (and also Skill Specs) duke it out in teams of two for the win across five unique challenges - who will take home the crown?!

If you can't see the video above, click here to check it out on our official YouTube channel

We wanted to say a huge thank you to Soup and Ally for all of their work organising, filming, editing and ultimately bringing to life the best gameshow in Gielinor - we can't wait to see what next season has in store!

Additionally, thanks to all of you watching (or just reading) along at home! You've been so welcoming towards these creators who are new to the Old School scene, we're grateful to all of you for showing off the best of what the Old School community has to offer.

Last up, we really appreciate the efforts of our established and up-and-coming creators alike to keep putting out great content, and also to find a several-hour long time window for more than 20 adults to record - it's not easy!

If you'd like to check out any of the creators involved, click on their names in the list below to be whisked away to their channels!

Creator	YouTube	Twitter/X	Stream
Skill Specs	Click here	Click here	Click here
Sardaco	Click here	Click here	Click here
Megan	Click here	Click here	Click here
Shobek	Click here	Click here	Click here
B0aty	Click here	Click here	Click here
Veibae	Click here	Click here	Click here
Odablock	Click here	Click here	Click here
Sodapoppin	Click here	Click here	Click here
Torvesta	Click here	Click here	Click here
Jokerd	Click here	Click here	Click here
PureSpam	Click here	Click here	Click here
MaryMaybe	Click here	Click here	Click here
PotatoHime	Click here	Click here	Click here
Stormfall	Click here	Click here	Click here
AnnieFuchsia	Click here	Click here	Click here
Faux	Click here	Click here	Click here
Settled	Click here	Click here	Click here
Guzu	Click here	Click here	Click here
Framed	Click here	Click here	Click here
Savix	Click here	Click here	Click here
Soup	Click here	Click here	Click here
Ally	Click here	Click here	Click here

Go and show them some love! Thanks for tuning in, we'll undoubtedly see you for the premiere of Gielinor Games Season Five in November!

The Old School Team.